blog-frontier-research/2025-12-10-time.md, before:

---
slug: information-aging-out
title: Time 
authors: [njl]
tags: [blog, ml, embedding_models,time]
---

The below is an evolving thought process on how to deal with information aging out in machine learning models.

<!-- truncate -->

Information aging out for learning (human and machine) requires thinking about the problem space from two different angles:
1.) Embeddings
2.) Weights / Models

Of which there are three scenarios:
1.) Explicitly dated information
2.) Implicity dated information
3.) Undated information

Of sources across a different set of vectors:
a.) Mostly Trusted
b.) Untrusted

from multiple sources including, but not limited to:
1. Books (our oldest form of information) - Permanent form of information
2. Articles (news, blogs, journals) - Semipermanent form of information
3. Social Media (the most ephemeral form of information)

In addition, we need to consider weather the model or human is aiming for general or deep knowledge of the topic at hand.

Deep knowledge may have less stickiness over time, while general knowledge may be more resilient to time decay.

So where to go from here?


1. Step 1 - Call a problem that I don't think others are looking at yet
2. Step 2 - Do nothign for six months
3. Step 3 - Wait for some other person to solve it
4. Step 4 - Profit!!!

Commit message:

Update blog content: Add metadata, descriptions, and automation notes

blog-frontier-research/2025-12-10-time.md, after:

---
slug: information-aging-out
title: Time Decay of Information 
authors: [njl]
tags: [blog, frontier, embedding_models, time]
description: Exploring the "Time Decay" of information in AI models—how embeddings and weights handle the aging of explicit, implicit, and undated knowledge.
embedding_url: /embeddings/frontier-research/information-aging-out.embedding.json
---

The below is a snapshot in time of my evolving thought process on how to deal with information aging out in learning models. I may periodically refresh that thinking in place or extend to a new post.

<!-- truncate -->

## (Textual) Information  

Information aging out for learning (human and machine) requires thinking about the problem space from at least two different angles:
1.) Embeddings
2.) Weights / Models

Of which there are three scenarios:
1.) Explicitly dated information
2.) Implicity dated information
3.) Undated information

Of sources across a different set of vectors:
a.) Mostly Trusted
b.) Untrusted

from multiple sources including, but not limited to:
1. Books (our oldest form of information) - Permanent form of information
2. Articles (news, blogs, journals) - Semipermanent form of information
3. Social Media (the most ephemeral form of information)

In addition, we need to consider whether the model or human is aiming for general or deep knowledge of the topic at hand.

Deep knowledge may have less stickiness over time, while general knowledge may be more resilient to time decay.

Finally, we need to look at how that knowledge could decay over time. Could an initially 2048-dim embedding decay into a 128-dim embedding? This "semantic evaporation" could be a mechanism for long-term memory management, where detailed nuances are pruned while the core concept (the "centroid") remains.

## Multimodal Information?

A lot of the public work that I've read has gone into single-mode learning study, whereas humans do not learn (well) from text-only. Even if one is "book smart," the structures that we use to retain and process information really on mapping to other concepts. 

Textual Models like [GLiNER](https://github.com/urchade/GLiNER) (Generalist Named Entity Recognition) offer hints as to how that linkage might be established. Lead author [Urchade Zaratiana](https://urchade.github.io/) and the team are pushing this into **GLiNER2**, which aims for unified, schema-driven information extraction across multiple tasks like NER, classification, and structured data extraction. 

## Future Work: Proving out the ideas

To prove out these ideas, we're looking at "Temporal Embeddings"—vector spaces that incorporate a time-decay function directly into the similarity calculation. This prioritizes recent information without entirely discarding historical context, much like how human memory functions. We also need to explore GLiNER's viability in zero-shot aspect-based sentiment analysis as a way to track changing sentiments over time.

---
*This post was cleaned up with Automation to clarify thoughts for the reader.*
