blog-self-hosted-iot/2025-05-03-camera-conversion.md, before:

---
slug: getting-off-of-wyze
title: Wyzely saying goodbye to Wyze!
authors: [njl]
tags: [homekit, wyze, scripted]
---

Getting more private from Wyze:

<!-- truncate -->
 * Battery Cam Protocol
 * Non-Recent Cameras


```mermaid
---
config:
  layout: dagre
---
flowchart TD
 subgraph IP_Cameras["IP Cameras"]
        IP_Camera1["IP Camera 1"]
        IP_Camera2["IP Camera 2"]
        IP_Camera3["IP Camera 3"]
        IP_Camera4["IP Camera 4"]
        IP_Camera5["IP Camera 5"]
  end
 subgraph s1["Apple Ecosystem"]
        n1["Apple Home Kit"]
  end
    IP_Camera1 -- TCP --> Hub["Hub Service"]
    IP_Camera2 -- TCP --> Hub
    IP_Camera3 -- TCP --> Hub
    IP_Camera4 -- TCP --> Hub
    IP_Camera5 -- TCP --> Hub
    n4["Web / Phone Client"] -- NAT? --> IP_Camera1
    n4["Web / Phone Client"] -- TCP --> Hub
    n1 --> IP_Camera1
    Hub --> n1
    n1@{ shape: disk}
    n4@{ icon: "azure:process-explorer", pos: "t"}
    L_n4_IP_Camera1_0@{ animation: fast }

```

### Outstanding Details

- Outstanding documentation Items
- Add more details about the network architecture
- Include diagrams and screenshots of the setup

Commit message:

Update blog content: Add metadata, descriptions, and automation notes

blog-self-hosted-iot/2025-05-03-camera-conversion.md, after:

---
slug: getting-off-of-wyze
title: Wyzely Saying Goodbye to Wyze!
authors: [njl]
tags: [homekit, wyze, scrypted, onvif, privacy, local-only]
description: Transitioning away from Wyze's cloud-dependent cameras to a local-only setup using Scrypted, ONVIF, and HomeKit for better privacy and control.
embedding_url: /embeddings/self-hosted-iot/getting-off-of-wyze.embedding.json
---

Transitioning away from Wyze's cloud-dependent firmware toward local-only protocols is a major step in building a private home. The goal is to eliminate the need for external servers for live feeds and motion alerts, ensuring that my data stays under my roof.

<!-- truncate -->

### Conversion Strategy

- **Battery Cam Protocol**: Moving to cameras that support local RTSP/ONVIF streams instead of proprietary battery-saving protocols that require cloud-based "wake-ups" to function.

:::warning

- **NOTE** battery-backed cameras have not been cracked yet. 

:::

- **Legacy Support**: Repurposing older hardware with [Thingino](https://thingino.com/) or [Scrypted](https://www.scrypted.app/) to bypass the manufacturer's cloud limits and proprietary app requirements.

```mermaid
---
config:
  layout: dagre
---
flowchart TD
 subgraph IP_Cameras["IP Cameras"]
        IP_Camera1["IP Camera 1"]
        IP_Camera2["IP Camera 2"]
        IP_Camera3["IP Camera 3"]
  end
 subgraph Apple_Ecosystem["Apple Ecosystem"]
        HomeKit["Apple HomeKit"]
  end
    IP_Camera1 -- RTSP/ONVIF --> Hub["Scrypted Hub"]
    IP_Camera2 -- RTSP/ONVIF --> Hub
    IP_Camera3 -- RTSP/ONVIF --> Hub
    
    Hub -- HomeKit ADK --> HomeKit
    Client["Web / Phone Client"] -- Local API --> Hub
```

### The Role of the Scrypted Hub

The "Hub" in the diagram represents [Scrypted](https://www.scrypted.app/), which acts as a bridge between my local IP cameras and HomeKit. It handles the local heavy lifting of motion detection and recording (HKSV), ensuring zero-latency access within the Apple ecosystem without any data ever leaving the house. This setup allows me to use any high-quality IP camera as if it were a native, high-privacy HomeKit device.

---
*This post was cleaned up with Automation to clarify thoughts for the reader.*
