blog-self-hosted-iot/2025-01-01-what-is-a-private-home.mdx, before:

---
slug: what is my private home
title: My Private Home
authors: [njl]
tags: [homekit, home-assistant,homebridge, network-security, parental-controls, zigbee, tasmota]
---



{/* truncate */}
This post will evolve to cover the basics of setting up a private home network between multiple locations using wireshark and ensuring that traffic follows the right path.


<IIcon icon="arcticons:unifi-network" height="48" />  All routers are currently ubiquity, although they may be replaced with other more private brands should their be any issues with phone-home discovered.


```mermaid
architecture-beta
    group home(cloud)[Local Network 1]
    group remote1(cloud)[Remote Network 2]

    service rrouter(internet)[Ubiquity Router] in remote1

    service hrouter(internet)[Ubiquity Router] in home




    service rrpi1(server)[RPI1] in remote1
    service rpi1(server)[RPI1] in home
    service rpi2(server)[RPI2] in home

    rrpi1:R <--> L:rpi1{group}


    raw:B <--> T:rrouter{group}
    raw:R <--> L:hrouter{group}

    service raw(internet)[Internet]

```

### Outstanding Details

- Outstanding documentation Items
- Add more details about the network architecture
- Include diagrams and screenshots of the setup

Commit message:

Update blog content: Add metadata, descriptions, and automation notes

blog-self-hosted-iot/2025-01-01-what-is-a-private-home.mdx, after:

---
slug: what-is-my-private-home
title: My Private Home
authors: [njl]
tags: [homekit, home-assistant, homebridge, network-security, zigbee, tasmota, ubiquity]
description: Defining the architecture of a private home network across multiple locations, focusing on Ubiquity hardware, traffic routing, and privacy-first IoT.
embedding_url: /embeddings/self-hosted-iot/what-is-my-private-home.embedding.json
---

This post defines the architecture of a private home network that spans multiple locations. By using **Site-to-Site VPNs** (specifically WireGuard) and rigorous packet inspection with [Wireshark](https://www.wireshark.org/), I can ensure that sensitive IoT traffic remains entirely within my controlled environment.

{/* truncate */}

### Hardware and Privacy Strategy

All routers are currently **Ubiquity**. While they offer a great balance of performance and ease of use, I maintain a strict egress-filtering policy to block any "phone-home" telemetry to Ubiquity's servers. Should any issues with unsolicited data sharing be discovered, these will be replaced with more privacy-focused alternatives like OPNsense or pfSense.

```mermaid
architecture-beta
    group home(cloud)[Local Network 1]
    group remote1(cloud)[Remote Network 2]

    service hrouter(internet)[Ubiquity Router] in home
    service rrouter(internet)[Ubiquity Router] in remote1

    service rpi1(server)[RPI1] in home
    service rpi2(server)[RPI2] in home
    service rrpi1(server)[RPI-Remote] in remote1

    hrouter <--> rrouter
    rpi1 <--> hrouter
    rrpi1 <--> rrouter

    service raw(internet)[Internet]
    hrouter <--> raw
    rrouter <--> raw
```

### Key Components

- **Local Mesh**: A cluster of Raspberry Pi devices running Home Assistant and Homebridge to bridge Zigbee and Tasmota devices into HomeKit.
- **Traffic Routing**: Custom firewall rules ensure that IoT devices (VLAN 40) are completely isolated from the main network and have zero internet access unless explicitly whitelisted for firmware updates.
- **Verification**: Periodic Wireshark captures verify that no unauthorized traffic is leaking from the "Private Home" to external cloud providers.

---
*This post was cleaned up with Automation to clarify thoughts for the reader.*
